Begin Task 1 - Getting to know your server. 

Copied from Linux Level ip on Reddit

LOGIN TO YOUR SERVER
Once logged in, notice that the "command prompt" that you receive ends in $ - this is the convention for an ordinary user, whereas the "root" user with full administrative power has a # prompt (but we will dive into this difference in Day 3 as well).

Here's a short vid on using ssh in a work environment.

GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE SERVER
Use lsb_release -a to see which Linux distro and version you're using. lsb_release may not be available in your server, as it's not widely adopted, but you will always have the same information available in the system file os-release. You can check its content by typing cat /etc/os-release

uname -a will also print the system information and it can show some interesting things like kernel version, hardware platform, etc.

uptime will show you how long the system has been running. It kinda makes the weird numbers you get from cat /proc/uptime a lot more readable.

whoami will print the user name you logged on with, whowill show who is logged on and w will also show what they are doing.

HARDWARE INFORMATION
lshw can give some detailed information on the hardware configuration, and there's a bunch of switches we can use to filter the information we want to see, but it's not the only tool we use to check hardware with. Some of the used commands are:

lscpu to display information about the CPU architecture

lsblk to list block devices

lspci to list all PCI devices

lsusb to list USB devices

MEASURE MEMORY AND CPU USAGE
Don't worry! Linux won't eat your RAM. But if you want to check the amount of memory used in the system, use free -h . vmstat will also give some memory statistics.

top is like a Task Manager for Linux, it will display the processes and the consumption of resources. htop is an interactive, prettier version.

MEASURE DISK USAGE
Use df -h to see disk space usage, but go with du -h if you want to estimate the size of your folders.

MEASURE NETWORK USAGE
You will have a general idea of your network interfaces and their IP addresses by using ifconfig or its modern substitute ip address, but it won't show you bandwidth usage.

For that we have netstat -i in a more static view and ifstat in a continuous view. To interrupt ifstat just use CTRL+C.

But if you want more info on that traffic, sudo iftop -i eth0 is a nice display. Change eth0 for the interface you wish to capture traffic information. To exit the monitor view, type q to quit.

POSTING YOUR PROGRESS
Regularly posting your progress can be a helpful motivator. Feel free to post to the subreddit/community or to the discord chat a small introduction of yourself, and your Linux background for your "classmates" - and notes on how each day has gone.

Of course, also drop in a note if you get stuck or spot errors in these notes.

EXTENSION
